
## Content 
    
    1. Username and Password
    2. Bus Reservation System (Basic Idea)
    3. Installation and System
    4. Data Types Used for the major and why?
    5. Function prototypes
    6. Working of each Function. how ? why ?
    7. Important Code Snippets for the code Author.
    8. Introduction about the Author.
    9. Thanks
    
    

## Username and Password

for the first time you need to login as admin as i have not defined the username and password except Admin.

```
Username : admin
Password : admin
```
After you login as admin you can register users and register buses as a plus other than user login benefits

# Bus Reservation System
A bus reservation system is a console application made by Mrunal N. Shah to reserve bus tickets.
The system has 3 major concepts :

    1. User Login
    2. Admin Login
    3. Time 

- The User Login :

This part of the sytem ask user to login with username and password provided by the administator.(No user can login if no username and passwords are generated by the administrator).

After login as User :

    1. User can view List of Bus schedules. 
    2. User can book tickets till the registered bus does not depature. 
        (You can book number of tickets at a time)
    3. User can cancel tickets before one day of bus depature
        (Only one ticket can be cancel at a time)
    4. User can see the layout,status of the particular bus.
        (Seats booked with the passenger names are shown here)


- The Admin Login :

After login as administator :

    1. Admin can view list of Bus schedules.
    2. Admin can book tickets till the registered bus does not depature.
        (admin can book number of tickets at a time)
    3. Admin can cancel tickets till the bus does not depature.
        (admin can cancel number of bus tickets).
    4. Admin can see the layout,status of the particular bus.
        (seats booked with the passenger names are shown here)
    5. Admin can register users. Only the registered user can login
        as user otherwise its invalid.
    6. Admin can register Buses. Only the registered buses can be 
        booked by user and admin, if bus is not registered it cannot
        be booked.

- Time :
Date and Time Validation is done with the bus timing(input during admin registering the bus) and current time. 


## Installation

For the first time you have to use :

``` 
Username : admin

password : admin 

```

and create as many username you want and register as many bus
you want.

Windows : 

    1. Download Code::Blocks with mingw compiler.
    2. Open the cbp file attached to the source code provided
    3. Read the code or Compile the code and run the code.
    4. Learn the code and maybe go through my Important 
       Code Snippet Section for the fast grasp of the code. 
       (currently under development)

Windows : 
    
    1. Compile all the source code on terminal as
        gcc sourcecode1.c sourcecode2.c and so on but i would 
        not recommend you the method as Code::Block does that for 
        you easily and is cross-platform available.

Code::Blocks -
    https://www.codeblocks.org/downloads/ 

Linux :
    (under development)
